we're at the capilano suspension bridge
park in north vancouver and standing on
the soon to be completed capilano first
walk the clips walks a difficult
structure to describe because there's no
frame of reference around it you know
when we speak about bridges everybody
conjures up an image of their mind but
when you say the word cliff walk it it
really doesn't give you any picture so
the weight is described it is the series
of bridges and stairs that form to the
contours of the rock face that take us
from one part of the park over the edge
of the cliff somewhat and then take us
to the north end of the park this
structure serves another purpose other
than just acting as a means to convey
one person from one side of an obstacle
to another one it acts as a medium for
providing educational opportunities an
excellent explanation for the people
that are on the on the walkway in the
water cycle and erosion and whatnot it
definitely is the first of its kind in
the world there has never been anything
constructed like this in modern history
that we're aware of the concept came
about from the owner of the park he had
repelled down into the canyons and was
very fascinated by it and decided that
he'd need to get some visitors down
there to see the raw space in himself
the highest part the cliff walk is 300
feet above the river the capilano river
so if you took the Statue of Liberty
from New York and had two of them made
and stuck one on top of each other
that's about how the eyes point to the
walkways
the river the total the total length of
the walkways 213 meters so around 700
feet we've got of over well over 400
meters of stainless steel handrail on
the project and the handrail is 1.2
meters above the deck which is which is
actually at 15 centimeters above what
the cold light requirement was and that
was something that we chose at the start
of the project that to go above beyond
above and beyond what the typical cold
would require for safety as far as the
eye to the railing one we're going to be
doing some load testing of the structure
just a measure its response we're going
to be doing that with by installing some
instrumentation some vibrating wire
strain gauges we're going to be applying
load to the structure using water water
and the barrel sauce will fill the
barrels up so there's a known quantity
of water in the barrels will know where
the barrels are located on the structure
will take some readings off the
instruments and we'll go back to the
office correlate that and check that
back against their structural model
that'll give us a supreme level of
confidence of the safety of the
structure to support its intended design
mode everything had to be designed to be
installed basically by hand using
traditional hand methods with block and
tackle and winches and and whatnot just
because there was no way to get a crane
we couldn't build a road to where we
wanted the cliff walk to be built we
couldn't cut down all the trees in the
park that would defeat the purpose of
why people come here so everything has
to be designed so that it was small
light and compact and we could install
it by by using hand methods instead of
relying on a large machinery I like
seeing my stuff being built but that's
that's the reward
for sure you take a small measure of
pride knowing that your work is being
appreciated by the public in general I
have the best job in the world and i
love it so much that I don't have a
retirement plan I don't have an rrsp
savings quad to speak of i plan to work
till i'm done till I still go till I'm
dead pretty much that's how much I love
my job